What is Yu-Gi-Oh! ?

Yu-Gi-Oh! is a beloved anime and manga franchise created by Kazuki Takahashi centered around stories primarily involving characters who play a card game called Duel Monsters wherein players acquire cards to build a deck of monster,spell, and trap cards in order to battle other players to gain victory.

It started as a manga in Japan in 1996 and has since grown as a globally recognized franchise spawning various media such as anime adaptations, a TCG based on Duel monsters, video games, toys, and many other products. 

reference: https://yugioh.fandom.com/wiki/Yu-Gi-Oh!

What is Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game (TCG) ?

The Yu-Gi-Oh! TCG is one part of the Yu-Gi-Oh! card game manufactured by Konami. It is released globally but is played mostly in North America, Latin America, Europe and Australia. It is printed in English, French, German, Italian, Portugese, and Spanish.

Another version of the card game manufactured by Konami is called the Original Card Game (OCG). It is mainly played in Japan, South Korea, and other parts of Asia including China, Hong Kong, Philippines, Malaysia among others. It is now exclusively printed Japanese, Korean, and Simplified Chinese. 

Both versions have the same rules and nearly the same roster of cards with a few cards that are exclusive to a particularly version until it later released to the other version. As a general rule, cards printed for the TCG can only be played for TCG tournaments same as with OCG cards being legal only in OCG tournaments unless otherwise a specific legality is announced for a particular tournament.

A game of Yu-Gi-Oh! between two players is called a Duel, with players being referred to as Duelists.

reference: https://yugioh.fandom.com/wiki/Yu-Gi-Oh!_Trading_Card_Game
https://yugioh.fandom.com/wiki/Yu-Gi-Oh!_Official_Card_Game

Getting started

Below are the type of decks needed for a Duel

Deck - A collection of cards comprised of any of the following: Normal Monsters, Effect Monsters, Tuner Monsters, Pendulum Monsters, Ritual Monsters, all types of Spell Cards, and all types of Trap Cards. Then minimum number of cards allowed is 40 while the upper limit is 60. It is generally recommended to have a deck size close if not exact to the minimum size of 40 cards to improve consistency of the intended combos of the chosen cards.

Extra Deck - A collection of cards comprised any of the following monster cards: Fusion Monsters, Synchro Monsters, XYZ Monsters, Link Monsters. During the game, the players can special summon any monster from the extra deck provided that their summoning conditions are met or a particular effect allows them to summon a monster without strictly adhering to the summoning conditions. A player can have no cards in their extra deck or have up to a limit of 15 cards.

Additionally, Pendulum monsters present on the field are normally sent face up on the Extra deck instead of being sent to the graveyard unless being sent to the GY as a material cost for an XYZ monster or is banished for any reason. 

Side Deck - A collection of up to 15 cards that can be put to either main or side deck that is not accessible during a match. However after a match, players can swap any card from their main and/or extra deck to any card from their side deck provided that the number of cards for both decks remain the same before and after the swapping of cards. This allows the players to customize their deck in preparation for the next match by swapping to cards that could help them respond to certain mechanics of their opponent's deck deemed troublesome.

Below are some accessory items that could be used to a duel:

Card Sleeves - Plastic Card sleeves can protect the cards from getting bent, scratched, and yellowing. When using card sleeves, it should be the same for all cards to prevent marking. 

Coin - To facilitate for card effects that require a coin toss for its activation.

Dice - To facilitate for card effects that require a dice roll for its activation.

Counters - Any small objects that could be placed on top of a card to represent any counters generated through an effect. Said counters are usually used as resource for activation of effects. These can also represent a monster's current level/rank that might've changed as a result of an effect. Lastly, these can also be used to keep track of the passage of turns as required by certain card effects. 

Tokens - Tokens are used to represent token monsters generated by card effects. They can be represented by any materials (usually another card that can fit a card zone) that has a distinct way of representing it's current position (either attack or defense) as it's also considered a monster card.

The Game Mat 

The game mat is a representation of your half of the playing field where the all the card fields are printed and organized to facilitate for proper placement of cards during a game. Players must place their mats such that their halves of the link monster zoners are aligned properly. Listed below are the different card zones with a corresponding description

Main Monster Zone - This is where you put your monsters when they’re played. You can have up to 5 cards here. There are 3 ways to position your Monster Cards: face-up Attack Position, face-up Defense Position, and face-down Defense Position.
Place the card upright for Attack Position, and sideways for Defense Position.

Spell & Trap Zone/Pendulum Zone -  This is where you put Spell & Trap Cards. You can have up to 5 cards here. You place them here face-up to activate them, or place them face-down. Pendulum Monster Cards can be activated in the leftmost and rightmost zones as Spells. This causes the zone you use to also become a Pendulum Zone for as long as the Pendulum Monster Card is there.

Deck Zone - Your Deck is placed face-down in this space. You draw cards from here to add to your hand. If a card effect requires you to reveal cards from your Deck, or look through it, shuffle it and put it back in this space afterwards.

Field Spell Zone - Special Spell Cards called Field Spell Cards are played here. Each player can have 1 Field Spell Card on their own side of the field. To use another Field Spell, send your previous one to the Graveyard. Field Spell Cards do not count towards the 5-card limit of your Spell & Trap Zone.

Extra Deck Zone - Place your Extra Deck face-down in this space. You can look at the cards in your own Extra Deck during the game. During a Duel, Extra Deck Monsters may be Summoned to the field from here using special methods. Pendulum
Monster Cards that would be sent from the field to the Graveyard are placed face-up here.

Extra Monster Zone - This is where you put your monsters that are Summoned to the field by special methods from the Extra Deck, like Link Monsters and Fusion Monsters. Normally, each player can only use 1 of these zones. A monster placed in this zone does not count towards the 5-monster limit of your Main Monster Zone.

Reference: Official Rulebook Version 10

